>> Will Sentance: I think it is worth
starting off people with some words about
where this a sync is gonna take us.
Promises we're gonna cover promises.
If you've seen v one of hard parts,
then you remember that it's,
we got, I think,
to the traditional ES5 callback model.
And we saw the callback queue
is all these sort of pieces.
In ES6, probably the most significant
additional feature was promises.
Under the hood, so they're not going to be
radically different to the callback model.
Then we're gonna see the key feature of
what I think makes JavaScript the most
powerful and popular language.
A certainly in the web world,
and that is it's a synchronicity.
This is what makes dynamic
web applications possible.
This is what means that when you're
clicking lots of slack emoji responses.
What else would we do?
When you're clicking all
those slack emoji responses,
they're not all being updated on
your local machine on your computer.
It's so
that's all being sent over the internet,
thousands of miles away
coming back confirming and
then somehow all happening simultaneously
in a single threaded language.
Already that might give you pause for
thought of the event loop which is gonna
turn out to be Joshua's way of
teeing up what's going to run and
what he's running and
what's going to run next.
And then some really interesting these the
micro task queue that I wanna shout out
Jake Archibald, our fellow British friend,
who is one of the people who talked
about the market ask you and
it really important who likes you and
the web browser features.
But we're back where we started.
We are going to get back in the saddle so
to speak by reminding ourselves how
jobs would excuse regular code.
Okay, here we go, people.
We're back.
So line one is over to Kayla line one,
what are we doing here?
Remember there's two parts running
code going through it line by line and
saving stuff as we go.
So Kayla, the line one, what are we
doing in our very first line here?
>> Kayla: We're defining constant norm and
setting the value to three
>> Will Sentance: Beautiful where's that
being saved?
Where's that data being saved?
>> Kayla: In global memory.
>> Will Sentance: Fantastic.
So norm is assigned a value of
3 in global memory beautiful.
Let's go over to Todd,
what are we doing Todd in the next line?
>> Todd: Our defined
function multiplied by two.
>> Will Sentance: Fantastic, and
that is to say we're taking its label,
that's its identifier, and then taking all
the code of it including the parameter as
a placeholder, that's gonna be filled in
with data and we end up using this code.
Sort of with a value in using this code,
and
we are saving it all in one go, fantastic.
Next line.
Let us have Matt left hand side.
>> Matt: You are gonna define
the constant output in the global memory.
>> Will Sentance: Beautiful
everybody is so pro at this point.
It is very nice.
Define the constant output of memory.
Matt, what am I gonna store
in that constant output?
>> Matt: The result of multiplied by two.
>> Will Sentance: The result
of coding multiplied by two.
Beautiful, so for now, everybody it is?
>> Audience: Uninitialized.
>> Will Sentance: Very nice,
taken care of specially.
All right, so
let's not get calling multiply by 2
with the input of norm which is the value,
3, its output,
it's returned value is going
to be stored into outputs.
And we're gonna create,
everybody, a brand new?
>> Audience: Execution context.
>> Will Sentance: Fantastic
in line with me as well.
There we go.
And Andrew we go folk.
Yeah, very nicely shaped.
There it is and
into its local memory our first thing
stored as a value three assigned
to what parameter name, Jeff?
>> Jeff: Input number.
>> Will Sentance: Input number, yes folk.
There it is input number then Dan told
me through the body of the function
>> Dan: We are defining constant result.
>> Will Sentance: Results
>> Dan: And we're assigning the value of
input number multiplied by 2
>> Will Sentance: Which is?
>> Dan: 6
>> Will Sentance: And then we do what?
Dan
>> Dan: We return out the value assigned
to label result.
>> Will Sentance: Very nicely put,
exactly.
And adding comes into the global constant,
output, there it is, perfect.
People, I wanna just talk about,
though, look at the journey
of the thread of execution.
I'm gonna do in green from now on.
When we hit this line here,
the of multiply by two.
Our thread of execution, remember, that's
the half of what we need to run code.
We need the ability to run code,
sort of this left-hand side here,
and the ability to store stuff,
those two parts.
When we started running multiply by2.
So we started running our code,
our thread of execution was going down.
It hit label output, and
then go run some more code.
So our thread of execution had to be
used to run the code of that function.
Into it we went and
until we finished inside this function,
where we allow to move on to
the next line of code and global?
No, because JavaScript is
a synchronous language,
JavaScript is a synchronous language
that means we do each line,
we finish it,
when we finish that we go next line, okay.
So into we went and
we did all the code inside of it and
until we finished with it,
we did not exit out to the next line.
And when we did, at that point we closed
this execution context and we moved on.
And then we hit our next line in global.
But you could imagine the language
where we would have run our code,
our thread would have gone into
multiplied by two run it and
we'd have continued our thread
of execution in global.
But not in JavaScript.
In JavaScript, if we have a line
of code to do, we have to do it.
It's the only line of code we can do and
we had to finish on it before
we move to the next line, okay?
>> Will Sentance: Already you
might be thinking hold on,
what if that line is a really slow line?
Suppose that lines a line that
might be speaking to Twitter,
over the Internet really slowly.
All right,
next line we hit is declaring new output.
Adam in the back, what are we gonna
do in order to get our value or
in order to finish this line of code,
the final line of coding,
what do we gotta go and do?
What is this final line telling us to do?
Declare new output.
>> Adam: Assign it to evaluation and
multiply by two with an input of ten.
>> Will Sentance: Absolutely,
so, that means we gotta go and
execute this function.
Create a new execution context for
it very quickly
create a new execution context
into it we're gonna go and
in local memory,
we are going to have input number,
assigned to 10 result, we know this right?
Result will be 20 and the return of
value result out into new output.
Our thread of execution, our single
thread of execution, the single do one
thing at a time while inside of here,
can we be running any further code?
No, and when we're finished
with that we can come out.